Again, it will be like a man going on a journey who called his servants and entrusted his wealth to them.
To one, he gave five bags of gold to another two bags and to another one bag, each according to his ability.
Then he went on his journey.
The manhood received five bags of gold when it once and put his money to work and gained five more bags.
So also the one with two bags of gold gained two more.
But the manhood received one bag, went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money.
After a long time, the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them.
The man who had received five bags of gold brought the other five.
Master, he said, you entrusted me with five bags of gold.
See, I have gained five more.
His master replied, well done, good and faithful servant.
You have been faithful with a few things.
I will put you in charge of many things.
Come and share your master's happiness.
The man with two bags of gold also came.
Master, he said, you entrusted me with two bags of gold.
See, I have gained two more.
His master replied, well done, good and faithful servant.
You've been faithful with a few things.
I will put you in charge of many things.
Come and share your master's happiness.
Then the man who had received one bag of gold came.
Master, he said, I knew that you're a hard man, harvesting where you've not sown and gathering where you've not scattered seed.
So I was afraid and I went out and hid your gold in the ground.
See, here it is what belongs to you.
His master replied, you wicked, lazy servant.
So you knew that I harvest where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed.
Well then you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers so that when I returned, I would have received it back with interest.
So take the bag of gold for him and give it to the one who has 10 bags.
For whoever has been given more, they will have an abundance.
Whoever does not have,
Even what they do have will be taken from them and thrown and throw out the worthless servant outside into the darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
This is the word of the Lord.
One of the greatest minds the church has ever known.
man who would shape how we understand grace and sin and desire and the restless human heart.
Before changing his own life, before his surrender became real, prayed one of the most honest and haunting prayers in history.
St. Augustine prayed, Lord make me pure, but not yet.
He wasn't an atheist, we know that.
He wasn't running from God in anger.
He wasn't spiritually numb.
He believed.
He was drawn.
He felt the pull of truth.
He knew what obedience would require, but he also loved his life as it was.
The relationships, the pleasure, the ambition, the sense of control.
So his prayer wasn't rebellion.
It was softer than that.
Quieter, more polite.
and yet equally as corrosive, it was delay.
Augustine wanted God, life to the full as it was promised, just not at the cost of what he wasn't ready to lose.
And I think if we're honest or if you're anything like me, you rarely say things to God like Augustine did, like not yet.
you probably or likely say more things that sound a lot wiser or maybe healthier or even more responsible, things like, it's bad timing.
It's not the right season.
I'm processing a lot right now.
I need to work on myself first.
And sometimes that's true.
The pilgrimage of faith, it has real seasons and real limits and a real need for rest.
But sometimes, and I say this as humbly and as gently as I know how,
Sometimes it's not exhaustion.
Sometimes it's not healing.
Sometimes it's not wisdom.
Sometimes it's avoidance dressed in maturity.
It's the soul nodding at God while quietly stepping sideways.
And historically the church had a word for this, not laziness, not rest, but sloth.
Now, before we go any further, when I say sloth, I know that at least half of you are picturing this guy.
And the other half of you are picturing this guy.
And I have to say that both are cute and relatable, and they are a zero threat to the spiritual life for the kingdom.
So that is not what we're talking about today.
For context, we are in a series called The Seven Deadly Sins,
And these, as a reminder, aren't random bad behaviors or occasional slip-ups for the disciple.
They are deep currents of the heart that quietly bend the direction of a life.
And they're called deadly, not because they explode, but because they erode.
And sloth, I would argue, is the most misleading of them all.
Historically, the church has defined sloth, sometimes called Asidia, as a kind of spiritual indifference.
But sloth is not mainly laziness as it's often understood to be.
In the Christian tradition, sloth is closer to spiritual apathy or a quiet resistance to the good God is calling us into due to sorrow or fear or even indifference.
It is the subtle refusal to love when love feels costly and ultimately it is an aversion to the good and the mysterious beauty and potential of the kingdom.
Sloth shows up as spiritual or emotional disengagement from things like prayer, obedience, worship, from loving our neighbors, from the work that we're called to, the relationships we have and the growth that God is inviting us into.
And here's what's difficult about it.
It isn't some kind of loud rebellion.
It's totally masked in a quieter response and things like not now, not yet, oh not me.
Unlike some of the other deadly sins, sloth touches the whole person.
It's physical, emotional, relational, and spiritual, and it shapes how we use our time, how we steward our energy, how we respond to responsibility.
It shapes how we move toward or away from God and others, and that's what makes it so sneaky.
You see, sloth rarely looks like sin.
It doesn't wreck your life overnight.
It just slowly lowers the ceiling a little at a time until you find yourself living and becoming less than you were made to be.
Sloth often sounds like I'll apologize later.
I'll join a Bridgetown community when life calms down.
I'll deal with my porn addiction, my anger, my unforgiveness, my drinking after this season.
Lord, make me pure, but not yet.
With sloth, comfort, personal comfort becomes the default setting.
And over time, sloth doesn't just waste our days.
It shrinks our souls.
I bet you're really glad you came to church today.
I am.
Anyone else?
All right.
Today we are going to look at sloth a bit further.
We're going to do that together and we're going to start by looking at what lives underneath it.
through the lens of a famous parable from Jesus that we just heard read.
So with that in mind, you can look back at your Bibles if you want to, Matthew chapter 25.
Now in our text, as we just heard, Jesus tells a story about the talents.
In this parable, it sits inside one of his final teachings before the cross.
In this parable, he is talking about his departure, the delay of his return, and the reality that one day we will all stand before him.
And book ending these,
This parable that we read this morning sits two other parables.
The first, the one that precedes this, he tells a story about bridesmaids who are meant to stay ready for their groom.
And right after this parable, he speaks about the sheep and the goats, people judged based on how they live out their faith.
So this parable that sits between these two parables answers the question, what does faithfulness look like when the master seems absent?
Or another way to say that is what does faithfulness look like for the disciple as we await Jesus' return?
Now the answer just to give it away on the front end, because I don't want to lose you, at least as we see it here in the parable is not passivity.
That's not the response.
It's not spiritual coasting.
But it seems it is active participation in what belongs to Jesus.
As our parable begins, we read that the master goes away on a journey and he entrusts his servants with wealth, five talents, two talents and one talent.
Now a talent wasn't just a coin, it was an enormous sum of money, think years of wages.
In Jesus and this story seems to be intentionally exaggerating, at least from my perspective, or maybe better said highlighting something significant.
The point he is emphasizing is not small responsibility, but extravagant trust.
The master is saying, I'm placing something of real weight and worth into your hands.
And this isn't just money.
Metaphorically, we see that this is the life of the kingdom being placed into ordinary human hands.
Things like our time, our relationships, our gifts, our callings, our opportunities, our community, and even the revelation of who Jesus is.
Now we read that not one of the servants is empty handed, and that means that none of us are either.
As the story goes on, we see that the first two servants responded immediately to the master.
Scripture says that they went at once.
They traded, they invested, and they risked.
The verbs here are active, and they imply movement or engagement.
When the master returns, they hear these same words, well done, good and faithful servant.
enter into the joy of your master.
Now notice with me for a moment that it is not well done, good and successful servants, but faithful.
Each servant was given different amounts, but the same reward, because as we see in the story, the kingdom runs on faithfulness, not comparison.
Now finally we come to the third servant, and here's where the camera is seemingly slowed down.
This servant doesn't squander money.
He doesn't rebel.
He doesn't disappear into some obvious sin.
Instead, we read he buries it.
Now, culturally, this is important because burying money was actually a known way to keep something safe.
So from a human standpoint, this looks careful, even responsible.
But as many of us have learned or are learning, what is culturally acceptable often becomes spiritually unacceptable in the kingdom.
Because listen to how Jesus explains himself, or listen to how he explains himself to the master.
Master, I knew you to be a hard man, so I was afraid.
And I went and hid your talent in the ground.
And this is, if you're paying attention, the turning point in the story.
The servants in action is not a personality quirk.
His inaction flows from his perception of the master.
I knew you to be hard.
Maybe demanding, maybe severe, maybe unsafe.
His theology at some level is distorted.
He doesn't trust the master's heart, and so he protects his own.
In the story, the servant's speech is a self-justifying accusation.
Whether or not the master is hard, we don't know, but what we do know is that the servant is using that story about the master as an excuse to bury what was entrusted.
And the master's response is striking.
He doesn't say you should have doubled it, man, or you should have made me more money.
Instead, he says in essence, you could have at least put it in the bank.
The minimum faithful step would have counted.
So the issue we see here with the third servant isn't failure, it's refusal.
The servant's tragedy is not that he ruined what he was given, it's that he never entered into the life of the master at all.
He chose self-protection over participation.
He chose safety over faithfulness.
He didn't say, I hate you.
He said, I was afraid.
And so I played it safe.
Or in the language we started with, Lord make me faithful, but not in a way that costs me.
Jesus, he places this story inside a teaching about his return to show us something sobering.
That in the kingdom, doing nothing is not neutral.
To receive grace, the grace that we have received when we said yes to King Jesus, the reality of our salvation and the life we get to experience to the full, to receive that grace and never engage it, to be entrusted and never to fully respond to not at the master while burying what he gave you, that's not harmless.
It is in fact a spiritual condition.
When you look closely at the third servant's heart, you can see what was driving him beneath the surface.
You see a heart oriented towards self-protection, towards comfort over obedience.
You see a heart that withdraws instead of stepping into or towards responsibility.
And you see a heart where urgency and delight and joy in the master and his work has quietly faded.
This parable isn't just Jesus showing us a bad decision.
He's revealing the inner posture that produced that decision.
And what's undeniable here is that the problem didn't start where the talent was buried.
It started in the heart where trust in the master had already begun to erode.
Long before his hands hid the talent, his desires, this servant had shifted somewhere.
His courage had thinned and his love for the master's purposes had cooled.
And that's what I want to draw our attention to today.
You may have heard of atomic habits, has anyone heard of that?
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
It's a book I haven't fully read, just full confession, but it is a book that has sold millions of copies and has powered countless podcasts.
I have read some of it.
So, you know, anyway, just enough to be dangerous.
Um, this thing, I mean, it's taken off.
It's, it's powered podcasts and blogs and coaching programs because it's core idea.
It resonates deeply with everyday life.
The author, James Clear, he uses simple but a striking metaphor in this book.
He says, our habits are like compound interest in finance.
Tiny decisions repeated over time create remarkable results.
Clear explains that it's not the dramatic once in a lifetime choices that shape our lives so much as the small, seemingly insignificant daily choices, the ones that we barely notice.
And here's the kicker he highlights.
He says, success is the product of daily habits, not once in a lifetime transformations.
And that truth is not just for success, because the flip side is true too.
The little shifts in our attention, in our desire, in our courage, the decisions to be comfortable instead of faithful, quietly compound into a drift, into apathy, and sometimes into sloth.
a tiny choice here and there to scroll instead of serve or to rest instead of actually respond to something to delay instead of stepping forward.
It doesn't feel like much in the moment, but over weeks and months, those tiny adjustments actually shape who we become and where our hearts begin to settle.
In Clear's language, habits are the compound interest of behavior.
And that's exactly what we see in this parable of the talents.
It wasn't one big mistake that buried the talent, but so many small internal concessions in desire encouraged that over time eroded trust and surrendered responsibility.
After centuries of watching the human soul, the early church began to notice something that the sin of sloth always has roots.
It grows from deeper movements in the heart.
Movements we can actually see in our text
In that inner drift, or those movements, they actually have a shape.
They begin when our desires curve toward comfort instead of our innate calling.
They deepen when we pull back rather than step forward into something, and over time they settle into a quiet indifference to the people of God and the things of God.
Now, early church writers, they gave names to these movements.
Not to label people, but to help us see what was happening inside of us before it hardened into sin.
And they call these things vices or passions.
Can you say vices or passions?
I feel like you really needed that because you seemed a little tired.
Now, just that felt good, didn't it?
Vices.
Who says vices?
Except for the president, I guess.
Anyway.
Now vices and passions in our links today, we might think of them as something like this.
Appetite, avoidance, and abdication.
So to understand how sloth begins, we need to start by looking at these a bit deeper.
So we're going to do that.
We're going to start with appetite.
Ready?
OK. Well, all four of us, let's do it.
Appetite.
Appetite is the first whisper of the soul.
It's that gentle tug towards something that feels good, something that promises comfort, relief, or even ease.
And appetite, as we've been learning in and of itself, it's not wrong.
We are wired with desires that guide us towards life, hunger, affection, approval, rest.
These are all gifts.
They help us survive.
They soothe what hurts.
But here's where sloth begins to take shape.
Appetite becomes dangerous when comfort
begins to replace love as our compass.
I'm gonna say it one more time.
Appetite becomes dangerous when comfort begins to replace love as our compass.
And it has to be said that this is not mainly the appetite, I'm not speaking about lust or excess.
This is the quieter craving for relief, for ease, for the path that costs us least.
It is the comfort as savior mentality, relief,
as a thing we instinctively move towards instead of or over and against love.
Love as we know and as we've been learning as a community, it moves outward.
Love moves towards God, it moves towards people, towards responsibility, towards growth and the invitations of the spirit.
And love, if it's really love, usually costs us something.
Appetite in slothful form moves inward and it asks,
what will make me feel better right now.
And it subtly trains us to choose comfort over our spiritual calling as disciples in the kingdom.
Appetite is impulsive by nature.
It whispers now.
It nudges today.
I mean, think about when you need a snack, a snack.
Good thing I didn't say crack.
You know what I mean?
It's just like all kinds of things.
Do you think about when you need a snack, anyone sensitive to snacks?
Yeah, I have a disposition that just bends towards
Hangar.
So when it's snack time, it's like something just, and I'm like, I'm starving!
I'm on fire!
And that's how I feel, anyone?
So it's impulsive.
Appetite, you know?
Okay, we're tracking?
Yeah.
It asks for immediate satisfaction, right?
Some of you have children, and they start to...
I've seen it.
They're down here.
And you're shoving things in their face.
I don't know, you know?
You're trying to satisfy, it's this appetite or this indulgence that needs to be satisfied and it is some form of a minor escape.
And every time we give into an appetite that doesn't bend towards love, every time we choose comfort over the harder, the truer good, it learns.
And it grows bolder in us and it doesn't stay small.
The soul actually begins to curve towards safety over sacrifice, towards familiarity over faithfulness, towards ease,
over love.
And the scary thing is we can cultivate this kind of appetite in really small, ordinary ways, reaching for comfort when we feel tension, turning away from what's hard or awkward or unfamiliar, the small moments, letting inconvenience dictate our choices more than love or responsibility or calling.
And left unchecked, this desire doesn't just persist.
It shapes us.
It becomes
the lens through which we see the world, the default driver of our decisions, the silent force behind our hearts.
Think of the servant in Matthew 25.
What did he really want?
Safety, predictability, security.
He wasn't going after some wild sin.
It was the pull towards what felt safe instead of taking the risk of trust.
And we see him choose comfort over participation.
And in doing so, he stepped away from the love and the trust his master was inviting him into.
In our lives, appetite shows up very ordinarily, choosing the easy conversation instead of the loving and honest one, avoiding a relationship that asks more of us than we're willing to give.
reaching for Netflix rather than having the courage to be present with a friend or spouse, scrolling instead of praying, attending instead of serving.
If we don't notice the appetites, they will nudge us sideways, away from the master, away from engagement.
And hear me, this is important.
It will ultimately move us away from true joy and the true love we most desire.
This is how sloth begins.
Now unchecked appetite naturally drifts into something called avoidance, that's our second point.
Where appetite whispers, I want comfort now, avoidant whispers, I'll wait, I'll protect myself, then I'll do it later.
It's too quiet, polite, and it sounds awfully responsible.
It uses spiritual language like soon, or after this season, or when I'm healthier,
or when things calm down.
And here's the thing.
It rarely says no.
It just keeps saying not yet.
But spiritually, avoidance is the servant burying the talent instead of investing it.
Remember that he didn't hate the master.
He stepped back and told himself it was safer.
And he called that enough.
And here's the seduction.
Avoidance feels wise.
It feels careful.
It feels mature.
But over time, as it continues, something else is happening.
Your world begins to shrink.
Fewer calls returned, fewer risks taken, fewer hard conversations entered, fewer prayers prayed, fewer costly acts of love and service, nothing dramatic, just less.
Less engagement, less courage, less participation in the life of the kingdom, every relationship we skirt, every obedience we defer.
Every act of love we quietly step around leaves our gifts and the potential fruit of our lives and the witness of our lives dormant in the ground.
And it also leaves our holy imaginations limited to the smallness of our yes and the worlds we've created.
Avoidance, it grows naturally from appetite because when comfort becomes our reflex, challenge starts to feel threatening.
Responsibility, it begins to feel heavy and love, it feels expensive.
So we step back and we avoid.
And each time we do that, avoidance gets stronger.
Like appetite, avoidance is self-perpetuating.
Every delay trains the soul.
Later is safer.
So I'm gonna ask you, where does not yet keep showing up in your life?
And where have you been living in the language of soon?
because avoidance feels like self-protection, but it's actually a slow, quiet thief of trust and a faithful participation in the life that God has placed in your hands.
Third is abdication.
Avoidance, if left unchecked, eventually hardens into something deeper.
And it's not just apathy, though apathy is very much a part of this equation.
It's something called abdication.
Now, apathy, as most of you know, is quieter than you expect, kind of sneaks up on you.
It doesn't shout.
It's kind of creepy.
It softens urgency that you feel.
It kind of dulls delight.
It steals curiosity.
And if you want to know if you're experiencing anything apathetic, those would be some of the signs.
The servant in Matthew 25, he didn't run off into some vice.
He just stopped caring enough to act.
Sometimes numbness is a signal that you need care or rest or community, but sloth is something different.
Sloth is when numbness becomes a settled refusal to love or to show up or to engage or to re-engage.
You exist, you move, but you no longer invest your life in what actually matters.
And spiritually, I just have to say, this is abdication.
This is stepping away from your truest vocation.
If you bear the image of God and each one of you in this room do, your truest vocation on planet Earth is to steward the presence in the person of God, to know life to the full and to know it miraculously and abundantly and holy.
Settling for a life smaller than the one you were called to.
The drift away from engagement or from responsibility or from love, all that God has given you to steward, that brings something called dissonance.
And dissonance is one of the greatest threat to the disciples' heart, I think, in today's day and age.
I know I've said this before, but I've gotten to be a professional Christian for over 20 years, and so I get to sit with people a lot and process their spiritual journeys.
And I have to say that this is something I see over and over again.
People will come into my office and be mystified by the indifference in their souls only to discover that they have actually been abdicating what God has so greatly entrusted to them.
And I know this sounds dramatic, and it might sound basic, but abdicating the responsibility and the reality of your salvation will do this to you.
saying that I was saved and set free and I have the spirit of God living in me and I'm able to do anything, abdicating, stepping away from that and saying that someone else's reality or someone else's responsibility actually brings a disconnect between your spiritual life, your conscious reality of what God is doing and wanting to do in and through you.
So many come into my office confused about why they don't feel God near or experience the fullness of His presence or the life that He's offered, but what they often so fail to see is that they've actually stepped out of the places they would know that life.
They've bypassed their own potential for joy by abdicating their place and their participation in it.
Well, they do that.
I don't do that though.
I'm not a leader.
I'm not a, whatever, fill in the blank, whatever the thing is.
And listen, I can say all this to you, because I've done it too.
Because I keep doing it.
Because I go to a pastor's office for a lot of different reasons, but I go there.
And sometimes it's about these things.
All to say, like appetite and avoidance, this posture will feed on itself.
Every moment we coast, every relationship we neglect or step away from and say, that's their responsibility to fix that, or they can help, you know what, they have enough friends.
They don't need me to be there.
Every gift we leave unused, every word of encouragement we withhold, every word of prophecy that was given to us that we don't stew or to give to other people, every prayer unprayed for fear that God won't be faithful or he won't help us or give us what we need.
It all reinforces the pattern, making it easier and easier to coast, to make it just that one week that then leads to that one month that then leads to that one year that leads to that five years.
So where have you stopped showing up?
Where has, I'm trying or it's not my place, quietly replaced real engagement.
Where have you stepped back from love and called it normal?
Because this is the end of the drift.
Appetite bends the heart towards comfort.
Avoidance then pulls us back from responsibility.
And abdication is where we quietly actually lay down the life God has placed into our hands.
And again, it doesn't look like a wild rebellion.
It's not some kind of collapse or some moment of indignation.
It's just a slow stepping aside.
That's their thing.
This is their season.
Not yet.
Not me.
And the cost is far greater than we realize.
This Christmas, I found myself rewatching the Disney classic Wally.
Anyone?
If I could have a robot.
If anyone here could build me one like that.
I'd be so into it.
We get all kinds of unique gifts.
I would like one of those.
My boyfriend had never seen it, and we were looking for a movie for the whole family, so wall-y it was.
He didn't make it very far before falling asleep, but I was captivated just like I was the first time I saw it.
And I have to say, this film, it always strikes me because it quietly and beautifully holds up a mirror to our lives and reality.
This image always sticks in my mind after watching the film.
You know?
And while I know it's just a cartoon, I think the message runs pretty deep.
Sometimes when I'm at airports or in doctor's offices and I see faces like glued to phones, glazed and absorbed, I fear that we as a society and even as a church are only like one or two slurpees away from being this guy.
As sincerity.
Just kind of so absorbed in convenience and comfort that we actually miss the world around us.
So distracted by the ease that we shrink from the work or the relationships or the calling that's right in front of us.
So enticed by the familiar that we stop noticing what God is asking us to steward.
Now again, I know that might be a silly example, but Wally actually captures something very real about our present lives.
It shows how easily we slipped into the slow drift of distraction.
the quiet pull of comfort and the patterns that lead to abdication.
It shows how ordinary choices, very small, very familiar and seemingly harmless, quietly shape our hearts and over time actually shape our lives.
This is the cost of sloth.
It doesn't strike like a storm.
It is not obvious or dramatic.
It is the slow erosion of the soul.
And Wally reminds us that the pull of comfort and the lure of convenience
And the application we remain to steward, that is actually the sin of sloth and it is subtle and it is ordinary, which means it is costly and we are meant to be on watch.
The wrestle with this concept of sloth, it's not new to the disciples of Jesus.
In fact, New Testament writers like Paul spoke repeatedly about the need to keep the main things, the main things, the truest things as disciples of Jesus before us.
and to not let the lesser things of the world actually keep us from knowing the glory of His kingdom, or living and knowing the faithful lives we were made to live.
Paul says things like, whatever you do, work with all your heart, as though you were working for the Lord, because this matters, this changes reality.
And he says, let's not grow weary in doing good.
Doing is the big word there, doing something.
Let us not grow weary in doing good for at the proper time, we will reap a harvest.
See, perseverance or the attentiveness to the heart, that's what keeps us free from sloth.
But the work, that work of not growing weary or episodic or indifferent, it actually requires a deliberate decision of the heart and the will in order for it to be true for us.
We in the American church have the great luxury, and I really do mean great luxury, of coasting off the smorgasbord of easily consumable podcasts and teachings and books and devotionals and breathing guides, and you name it.
We can fill ourselves with so much, and here what I'm about to say, we can also comfort ourselves with so much information in such a way that we actually forget that to whom much is given, much will be required.
We can fill ourselves, comfort ourselves that we actually forget that those things are meant to move us outward.
So not growing weary means that we are attuned to the things that Jesus is attuned to in real time.
You weren't given grace for tomorrow, so your attunement likely is not towards tomorrow, it's for today.
The present moment of ministering today, seeing the work in the hand of God today.
We have to move slow enough to keep pace
to understand God's definition of love, not our own, so that we don't hide our talents in some kind of indulgence or comfort, so that we can invest them faithfully.
Sloth, it forms us through these really small habits and you're like, you've said it a lot, I know.
It forms us through, I'm just trying to get it in us through small habits of delay, comfort, and withdrawal.
So how do we resist it?
In the same way we grow in becoming like Jesus.
through simple practices that train our hearts to love.
So not hustle, not striving, not proving ourselves to God, but learning to live present and responsive and faithful in ordinary moments.
This is the life that sloth pulls us away from.
It's steady love offered to God sustained over time.
So does anyone want to fight sloth?
You saw how cute it was.
Really tough to do, but let's do it.
So here's how we do it.
We practice our way back into the presence of God.
Now I'm going to offer you four simple practices that I actually believe can help us retrain our hearts.
And these are not alliterated.
Yeah.
So yeah.
And, and listen, I just want to tell you this too.
It's felt important.
Um, these aren't dramatic.
They're small.
And you should know this.
I learned them in high school from a youth pastor.
So they are tested and tried just for the last few years.
All right, you ready?
Four things, practice immediate obedience.
Just practice immediate obedience.
So I've shared a little bit about my mom here in our community.
My mom's an aide on the Enneagram and she's always right.
It's a joy to hear her recount her parenting with us.
She's done a great job.
And that's the truth.
My mom's actually, my parents were rock star parents.
They are rock star parents, and I thank God for them, I mean it.
But my mom, one of the things she says to us often as she's giving feedback about other people's children is she said, you know, your dad and I always taught you to obey in a way that we hoped you would obey to God in the future.
So our focus was like, if we could teach you to obey, now the right way that when you hear God's voice, you'll know how to obey him.
So if you were running into the street and I said, stop, you need to stop immediately because it could actually cost you your life.
And the same is true in your kingdom life.
God may say, stop, and you need to have ears to hear, be quick to obey.
So this was the definition of obedience in my house.
It's do what I say when I say it with a happy heart.
And we learned that the hard way and we really learned it.
And I will say to you that shaped my whole life.
It taught me that there's no delay in obedience.
And while I can't perceive everything accurately, like, is this God?
But as God invites me to obey Him, small moments of big ones, I am quick to say, yes, Lord.
I don't know what that means, even if it cost me something, because I have trained my heart and mind to obey.
My mom would always say, this is not a negotiation.
You're obedience.
There's no, like, bartering.
And maybe that sounds a little aggressive, please don't send me an email.
But I just say that to say, it taught me, because negotiation delays actual obedience.
And so it taught me just to say, I'm going to obey and trust the Lord, even if I don't even know if this is the actual, or the direct invitation from, I'm going to obey if it seems wise and right.
And I'm going to do it in faith and see what happens afterwards.
I've shared this before, but early in my college years, again, just like a few years ago, I was, that's a joke, I'm 40.
It's hard to believe.
But this is 20 years ago, or more, actually, but anyway, let's not do math.
Let's stay focused.
I was at my college dorm, 18-year-old, and I've shared this before, but trash kept falling out of my parcels.
Anything I was carrying just had little pieces of trash falling out of it.
I'm not pigpen.
I don't know what's going on.
It's like little gum wrappers.
I pull out my lip gloss.
Women, you pull out your lip gloss, and 17 things come out.
You're like, I don't know.
What happened?
I carry small bags and I shouldn't, but then I shouldn't carry big bags because they become trash bags.
Anyone?
Anyway, so trash would fall out of my bag and really early on when I was in school, I heard the voice of the Lord.
One piece of trash fell out one day and I heard the voice of the Lord say, pick it up.
Get that, gotta get that trash.
And I was like, ugh.
It's like snowy, wet, no.
And I'm like 18.
And I felt like he was like really clearly like this.
If you can't be faithful with this invitation,
What can I trust you with in the future?
And that wasn't like some weird manipulative thing.
It was just like, can you be faithful with the small things?
And hear my voice and respond.
So for my whole life since then, trash follows me just everywhere.
Today, I just picked up trash in this room because I heard God say to me, pick up that trash.
And it happens every day and every week.
And here's what I just want to say.
It's a weird example.
And I know, again, it can sound weird.
But it was a way that God has trained my heart to listen and obey in the small things so that when he says the big things, I'm able to do the big things.
And that's what we have to do is train our hearts.
Remember that sloth says later.
So I've had moments where I walked past the trash and literally five minutes later he's like, go get it girl.
And I did.
I had to leave a classroom to go get the trash.
I left behind because I was like, man, I gotta, you're worse at, you're worse at attention.
And so I want to be like that.
And love says, yes, Lord, and trust Him.
Okay.
Every time we respond, we retrain the reflex of our soul and that's what we need as we continue to grow and work against sloth.
Okay, next.
Pray when you feel numb.
Run to Jesus when the gray blanket falls because it will, has and it will again.
Sometimes disengagement is weariness and you need care and that's for you to discern.
But when you feel that dull distance settling in, don't let yourself drift further.
Sloth would say, just chill out, relax, pull yourself back.
But I would say, bring it to Jesus.
Even a simple, honest prayer, like, Lord, I don't feel it, but I'm here.
Often I'll put my hand on my chest and just say, like, OK, you're here.
Try to help myself recenter and say, Lord, I'm here.
This is a prayer I've been praying a lot in this season.
And we underestimate the power of saying things like this.
And the power of prayer is that it keeps our heart open instead of closing it.
which keeps us more available to the presence and the person of God rather than our own indulgences.
So pray.
Pray when you feel numb.
Third, do the next right thing.
You know, you don't have to fix your whole life today.
You just have to do the next act of love that's in front of you.
This I learned from my youth pastor's wife.
We did a lot of Bible studies and she used to say, when you don't know what to do, just do the next right thing.
Just do the next right thing, the next act of love.
So have the conversation, pray the prayer, take responsibility, do that small act of service that no one sees.
This is how a life of love is built, one faithful step at a time.
So often we are desperate for those encounters that change everything.
But the best people we know, the most alive people we know are people who've just taken it one step at a time, been faithful and faithful and faithful.
And this is how we have and live life to the full, where we get to experience and see the realities of the kingdom of God we wouldn't otherwise see.
Now finally, we have to embrace discomfort on purpose.
Some of you are like, no, that's okay.
I felt your spirit close off to me.
And so I just bless you and Jesus' name to be open.
Remember, small acts train the will.
Comfort the world we live in has been discipling us for years.
So we have to gently retrain our soul by choosing love when it costs something and especially when it feels uncomfortable.
So that means like staying in the hard conversation, sitting by that person you don't want to sit by, showing up even when you're tired, serving when it's completely unseen or unnoticed.
It's praying when you feel dry.
This act of staying in discomfort don't misunderstand me.
It's not as punishing ourselves.
It's a practice of learning to prefer love over ease.
So if love is the intention, if that's the objective as you're standing there or caring for, looking at or serving another, God is going to do something in you that changes and retrains your heart as you stay in the discomfort.
We are changing our experience as we give ourselves away.
And at the same time, we are trusting God to do something through that we could have never imagined.
You don't know what God wants to do with your simple act of staying in discomfort.
Now, this I think is how we fight sloth.
And I just want to say, we don't wait until we feel inspired.
Because that could take a long time for a lot of us.
I say that myself.
Like, you know, this stuff I'm offering is not that appealing.
But the objective for us is to practice the way of Jesus until at some point, faithfulness becomes our instinct and love becomes our way of life.
Don't wait to feel inspired.
This is an invitation to start today, to lean in and to choose, to deliberately make a decision in your heart for and towards and to see what God might do.
Augustine prayed, Lord, make me pure, but not yet.
And I know that prayer well.
Again, I don't say it quite that way, but I have my own version.
And I, even through this teaching, have become more and more aware that this last year has been a year of sloth for me.
You know, like the heavy year of the pig or whatever.
So I'm like, you're the sloth or my sloth era.
You know.
And I'll be totally honest with you.
There is a real fatigue.
I'm fighting.
I'm up for sabbatical this summer.
It's been a long seven years.
It was pre-2020, so 75 years ago.
But the truth is I have let that fatigue dictate and be an excuse for living less than faithful than I know I've been called to live.
And one thing I want to say in light of that, in light of the repentance I was invited into this week, is that through this teaching I have also been reminded how the greatest moments of my life
the most mysterious and glorious and beautiful, true kingdom moments.
They've all come through small acts of obedience, of a deliberate decision of the will.
Working here at Bridgetown, I started out as a volunteer because Gerald asked me to.
Not because I was like, ooh, I can't wait.
I was like in seminary and obviously really cool and just having a lot of invites to do things, just kidding.
No.
And I don't know if that's an inspiring story or not, but I think about how I felt the spirit of God say, you need to serve in this house.
And I thought it was for a very short amount of time for a very small group of people.
And I just see God's faithfulness, how this has been one of the greatest miracles of my life.
My community that I show up to, I've been in community with a lot of them for over 10 years.
And honestly, I've showed up a lot of times because I had to, because I work at Bridgetown.
I mean, not completely, but a little bit.
And that faithfulness, that decision to say, I'm going to show up and not just show up physically, but show up to these people has really changed my life and my experience of life and community.
The people that are in my life that are close to me, the best moments have been the moments where you're fighting for something or fighting with each other or you're doing the regular small moments of obedience together.
Those things help you build something beautiful.
And I know maybe it'll sound funny, but even my boyfriend risking and listening to the Spirit of God about that was a really big, scary nudge from the Spirit that I was able to hear and took a small risk on and just said, okay.
And I'll just say in this room, there are thousands of other stories like this and moments that I've got to witness in your life where some of you have just been in very small ways, faithful and obedient, and God has done a miraculous work in your life where you've seen and tasted the kingdom of God and its glory.
through moments of obedience.
So I just say that to say, there is so much more for us to know as a community.
There's so much more life, so much more vibrancy, so much more of the kingdom of God we've yet to taste.
And we are at risk of missing out on that if we give into this subtle temptation just to live a little less.
Faithfulness is not about perfection.
It's about stepping in and it's about showing up and it's about choosing
to do the thing you don't want to do a lot of times.
So the question we'll end on is this today.
The question I don't want you to be thinking about is like, can I do this perfectly or do this at all?
The question is simply, will I just step in?
One day at a time, one invitation at a time, one moment at a time, one maybe act of obedience today at a time and see what God might do.
Thanks for joining the Bridgetown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit Bridgetown.church slash welcome.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgetown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at Bridgetown.church slash giving.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.